1. what is programming language?
a system of statement used to manipulate a computer - input, manipulate, output
2. OOP?
1.
wkb,wks, a range of cells
eg: car
properties, descriptive items: model, color, year, price
methods, actions performed : start, drive, park
events, things that can happen to a car: on_start


2. 
Object:
1. application object
the top level for an instance of Excel
properties: version, caption, default file path, workbooks collection
methods: calculate, checkspelling, quit
events: sheetCalculate, NewWorkbook, workbookbeforeclose
2. workbook object:
properties:name, sheet, saved
methods: close, printout, save
event: beforeclose, newsheet, beforesave
3. worksheet object( worksheet, chartsheet):
properties: name, usedrange, visible,
methods: activate, copy, delete
event: active, deactivate, change

3.
key stroke:
cntr + r: project explorer
this workbook-event handler
f2: object browser
cntr + p: print
f5: run
f5: walk through a subroutine one step at a time
right click module name to share/ export 
file/input
tools - vba project -rename : easy to maintain
                    -protect: set password. extreme strong. 
insert - module 
change module name in properties. down left. properties window( F4)
do not rename the builtin worksheet or this workbook modules, these are used exclusively for events.
worksheets code module name and worksheetsname are different
note: we should keep different subroutines in different code modules. e.g. fomatting, data manipulation 

5.
procedure: subroutine, functions
functions return a value, subroutines do not

excel convention: use the function's name as the variable to which we assign the calculation's results

6
public(default), private: scope of the macro
if macro alters or deletes data, private it! to ensure that it does not delete content by accident
add comments for sucessors/ for different attempts

7
run a macro:
f5
macro dialogue
link it to a shape in the body of the workbook
custom a quick acess toolbar at the top of the menu

8.
case 1: interaction with pivot table:
1. click on another sheet to activate the pivot table sheet
2. options -> clear all the contents

9.
help -> data type summary
currency data type: 4 digit to the left
assign integer or long as data type for integers

10.
dim (dimension): declare a variable
option explixit: force to define each variable
square botton to reset module, end debugging

11.
variable scope/visibility
local variables are visible under each subroutine
global variables can be declared in the decoration section, but cannot be assigned a certain value
useful when the same variables appear in different subroutine
be careful if many variables under different subroutines share the same name

12.
define static variables (instead of dim keyword) or constant to create variables that hold the values until the workbook is closed
the variable is incremented every time the subroutine runs

we cannot make a static global variable, but we can walk around it by creating a subroutine that is 
called from within another subroutines

13.
operators
^raise the value to the exponent
round(value, 2) round off the value to two decimal places
decimal division: /, allows the remainder
integer division: \, discards the remainder 
modular division: mod, keeps the remainder only

14
populate an array: 
read the values from worksheet cells
define array as variant, and write values into the array =array('','','',...)
dynamic array: [redim preserve] reads dimension from input (needs to substract 1 from the user input)
arrays help to maintain and look up data quickly without having to manipulate the worksheet
maintaining the values in the worksheet speed up programming execution and simplifies the programming jobs significantly

15.
object variables: workbook, worksheet, cellrange
eg: set wkb = thisworkbook.worksheets("...")
makes code compact and easier to understand

16:
with:
eg: 
sub makebig():
  range("a1").select
  with selection.font
    .name = "Cambria"
    .size = "18"
  end with
end sub


17. for each control variables must be variant

18. pay attention to the structure of " if...then...elseif...then" statement
[case is] is more efficient


















